in POEMS FOR KIDS

34 Best Nursery Rhymes for Kids (Activities and Lyrics)
Share
Tweet
Google
Pinterest
Mail
34 Best Nursery Rhymes for Kids (Activities and Lyrics)
Nursery Rhymes for kids lay the foundation to early language and reading skills. Children who are frequently read and sang to early on, are much more likely to develop strong reading skills.

After using poems to teach kids how to read over the past 17 years, I have found nursery rhymes to be the most effective tool. I’m so excited to share this list of the nursery rhymes for kids with you. They will build vocabulary, fluency, expressive and receptive language, rhyming skills, and expand the kids’ imagination.

 

Free Nursery Rhymes for Kids
In this blog post, you will find the some of the best nursery rhymes lyrics and suggested activities.  Before you start scrolling, grab your FREE poetry guide with checklists, activities, and printables.



A Tisket, A Tasket Lyrics
A Tisket, a tasket, a green and yellow basket.

I wrote a letter to my friend, and on the way I dropped it. 

I dropped it, I dropped it, 

and on the way I dropped it.

The little boy, he picked it up,

and put it in his pocket. 

Printable nursery rhymes page poster for kids

A Tisket, A Tasket Suggested Activities:  
A Tisket, A Tasket Build a Poem activity for in the classroom or at home.
Have the kiddos write or draw a letter to a friend, then act out the poem.
Cut and paste A Tisket A Tasket Sequencing Cards
A Tisket A Tasket Write the Room
 

Baa, Baa, Black Sheep Lyrics
Baa, baa, black sheep

Have you any wool?

Yes sir, yes sir

Three bags full.

One for my master

And one for the dame

One for the little boy

Who lives down the lane. 

Printable nursery rhymes page poster for kids

Baa, Baa, Black Sheep Activities
Color a sheep template black, then use cotton balls to incorporate a sensory craft
Estimate how many cotton balls it will take to fill three lunch bags
Baa, Baa Black Sheep Build a Poem
Cut and Paste Sequencing Cards
Baa Baa Black Sheep Write the Room
Baa Baa Black Sheep Color By Codes
Baa Baa Black Sheep printable activities

Hey Diddle Diddle Lyrics
Hey diddle, diddle,

the cat and the fiddle.

The cow jumped over the moon.

The little dog laughed to see such sport,

and the dish ran away with the spoon. 


Hey Diddle Diddle nursery rhymes songs and lyrics for kids. Printable posters

Hey Diddle, Diddle Activities
Introduce a fiddle, and let the kids have turns acting out the cat’s role
Paint a picture of a cow jumping over the moon.
Hey Diddle Diddle Color By Codes
Cut and Paste Sequencing Pictures
Have a jumping contest
Do a sight word hunt using the printable Hey Diddle Diddle Poem.
Hey Diddle Diddle Build a Poem
Hey Diddle Diddle Write the Room
Hey Diddle Diddle printable resources bundle for preschool, kindergarten, and first grade.

Hickory Dickory Dock Lyrics
Hickory dickory dock, the mouse ran up the clock.

The clock struck one, the mouse ran down.

Hickory dickory dock.

Hickory dickory dock, the mouse ran up the clock.

The clock struck two, the mouse said “BOO!”

Hickory dickory dock.

Hickory dickory dock, the mouse ran up the clock.

The clock struck three, the mouse said “WHEE!”

Hickory dickory dock.

Hickory dickory dock, the mouse ran up the clock.

The clock struck four, the mouse said “No more!”

Hickory dickory dock.

Hickory dickory dock nursery rhymes
Get these printable nursery rhymes HERE

Hickory Dickory Dock  Activities:
Use with a Teaching Time kit to integrate lessons about clocks and time.
Talk about and act out position words: up, down, etc.
Come up with a list of rhyming words for mouse.
Hickory Dickory Dock Build a Poem
Cut and Paste Sequencing Cards
Color by Code Hickory Dickory Printable Coloring Pages
 

Humpty Dumpty Lyrics
Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall.

Humpty Dumpty had a great fall.

All the Kings horses, and all the king’s men,

couldn’t put Humpty together again. 

Humpty Dumpty nursery rhymes
Get the printable nursery rhymes HERE

Humpty Dumpty Suggested Activities
Humpty Dumpty Build a Poem
Cut and Paste Sequencing Cards
Humpty Dumpty Write the Room
Color by Codes
Alphabet Clip Cards with Humpy Dumpty Clipart
Humpty Dumpty Sight Word Search
Following Directions Nursery Rhymes Coloring Pages
Humpty Dumpty resources  

 

I’m a Little Teapot Lyrics
I’m a little teapot short and stout.

Here is my handle, here is my spout.

When I get all steamed up, hear my shout.

Just tip me over, and pour me out!